And so we’re talking about technology today.
And as has been mentioned
by our commenters,
Jehovah’s organization is certainly making
good, positive use of technology
to get the good news preached.
Every week,
we receive letters of appreciation
from those who have been watching JWB
—JW Broadcasting.
They just love to watch the programs.
And this morning,
I’d like to talk a little bit more
about our website
—jw.org.
Did you know that many people
are first recognizing the sound of the truth
through jw.org
even before they have had
personal contact with a Jehovah’s Witness?
It’s true.
I’d like to share some experiences
with you this morning.
The first one has to do with Cadja.
She was dissatisfied with her church,
and so she decided
to investigate various religions.
Now in the old days,
people would just go
from one church to the other,
but modern-day people
go on the website;
and they want to know
what various churches teach.
And as she was investigating
the teaching of various religions,
she noticed that there were
a lot of negative comments
about Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Did that stop her?
No, because she was a fair-minded person.
So she went online and found our website,
and she found
the “Frequently Asked Questions” section
of the website,
and she loved it.
Every question was answered with the Bible,
and that’s what she wanted in a religion.
Well, she noticed on our website
that there was an invitation
to attend our meetings.
And so she talked a schoolmate
into going with her to the Kingdom Hall.
She was a schoolgirl.
Now, she loved what she heard
at the Kingdom Hall,
and she was so warmly welcomed.
But wouldn’t you know it?
Her parents were opposed.
And soon after she made
that one foray to the Kingdom Hall,
they moved to an isolated area
where there were none
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
and Cadja was cut off
from any association
with the Witnesses for one year.
But not to be deterred,
she studied all of our publications
on the website.
And she kept up-to-date with the truth.
In September of 2014,
she was again able to make contact
with the Witnesses
and she accepted a Bible study.
And in July 2015, she was baptized.
So she got the truth.
Her initial contact
with the truth was on jw.org.
Now, speaking of being cut off
from the Witnesses,
that’s Kenji’s problem.
He’s a fifteen-year-old boy in Japan.
He would love to attend meetings
at the Kingdom Hall,
but his father
forbids him from attending.
But here’s what Kenji has to say.
He says: “I watch JW Broadcasting
“and jw.org every day.
“I see brothers doing their best,
and that encourages me.
“One day I will become a great brother.
Please wait.”
Well, speaking of lifelines,
we were at a circuit assembly
in St. Louis, Missouri, over the weekend,
and a sister told me
that she had been
very gravely ill for a whole year
—so ill that she
couldn’t attend the meetings,
and she wasn’t able
to tie in to the meetings.
But she said her lifeline
was JW Broadcasting and jw.org.
So these technological innovations
are really accomplishing a good work.
Let’s talk about Alenka.
She’s a physics teacher.
And one day,
she was at the home of an acquaintance
and there was a strange man there
—a man that she didn’t know.
But she was really impressed with this man.
He was so friendly
—so warm and kind and balanced too.
And after he left,
she mentioned that to the householder.
And the householder said:
“It’s all true what you say.
“But there’s one problem.
He’s one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.”
Another negative comment
about Jehovah’s Witnesses.
What did she do?
She went home and she went online
and she found our website.
For five months,
she carefully studied
all of the material on our website.
And at the end of five months,
she decided to go to the Kingdom Hall.
She made a very interesting comment,
something I hadn’t really thought about,
she said,
“Thanks to jw.org,
“nothing in the hall
seemed strange to me
—the program, the people—
all of it was familiar.”
After she attended meetings for a month,
she asked for a Bible study.
So she was careful,
but she got the truth,
and her first encounter
after that man was our website.
Dregan was a Franciscan monk in Slovenia.
He’d been in the order for a number of years,
but there was something missing.
There was a void in his life.
He realized that his religion
was not satisfying his spiritual need.
So he went online
and he joined a chat room
with a bunch of evangelicals.
Well, as you can imagine,
eventually some negative comments
were made about Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Did that stop Dregan?
No, another fair-minded person.
He thought,
‘It’s not fair to criticize
Jehovah’s Witnesses when,’
thankfully, ‘none of Jehovah’s Witnesses
are in that chat room.’
So he went online
and found our website.
And he was delighted
with the quality of the website.
Now, he was a monk,
and in the Franciscan Order,
that particular Franciscan Order,
the monks were only allowed
to leave the monastery on Mondays.
So one day, he found the address
of the branch office in Slovenia,
and on a Monday morning,
he went to the branch and got a tour.
The brothers received him very warmly.
He was very impressed with what he saw,
and he came away with a novel idea.
He came away with the thought
that he should be reading
the Bible every day.
And so he went back to the monastery,
went online,
and started reading
the Bible online every day.
His fellow monks observed this,
and they thought this was hilarious.
What’s a Catholic monk doing
reading the Bible?
But he didn’t allow
their opposition to deter him.
He kept reading the Bible
and then kept consulting jw.org,
and he realized,
on consulting the website,
that the Memorial that year
was on a Monday.
So he was going to be able to attend,
and he did.
And that did it
—that meeting.
He made the decision
to leave the Catholic Church
and to leave the monastery.
So now, there were a lot
of challenges to overcome.
It wasn’t so easy,
but he persevered.
And in June of 2014,
he left the church;
he left the monastery;
and then in the month of October
of that same year,
he was baptized as one
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Since, he has served
as an auxiliary pioneer.
A sister in Finland is studying
with a Bulgarian woman,
and one day the woman asked her
to drive her to the hospital.
“Oh, are you ill?”
Well, the woman hemmed and hawed,
and finally she admitted
she wanted to have an abortion.
Well, the sister said:
“I can’t.
My conscience won’t allow me
to drive you to the hospital for that.”
And then she shared
some scriptures with the woman
on God’s view of life.
But then she had an idea.
At the end of every study
—and here is something
that you might want to implement—
at the end of every study,
she shows the woman
something from the website.
And she remembered something.
Song number 88
—“Children Are a Trust From God”—
had come out in the Bulgarian language
as sung by a children’s chorus.
So she played song 88 to the woman
in the Bulgarian language.
The woman’s heart was touched,
and she canceled the abortion.
She said:
“I’m going to have the baby.
“If it’s a boy, his name will be Angel.
“If it’s a girl, Angelina
because God protected the child.”
And I think the children’s chorus
helped a little bit too.
Now, we have for years
been encouraging pioneers
and publishers who conduct Bible studies
to direct interest to the organization.
And we printed a brochure.
And then we printed
a simplified brochure with many pictures.
And these brochures have had some success.
But I think what has really opened
the eyes of the brothers
and our Bible students to the organization
has been JW Broadcasting and jw.org.
And you see now as you go
from one congregation to another
or one circuit to another
that the brothers are really talking
about the organization
as they never did before.
So it’s obvious that technology
has contributed
to the understanding of the brothers
and to the spread of the good news.
Now here’s a warning:
Technology has a place;
it has a big place.
But there is a danger.
Have you ever heard the term “phubbing”?
“Phubbing.”
P-H-U-B-B-I-N-G.
It’s a combination of phone and snubbing,
and it refers to the act
of ignoring real people
while consulting an electronic device.
So picture a man and a woman
in a restaurant,
and each one is online.
Each one is consulting
a different website or answering mail,
and they’re not talking to each other.
It’s a real problem
according to a study by Baylor University.
So, what we want to do
is stay connected,
not just to the Internet,
but to stay connected to real people,
to those around us.
Brother John Barr of the Governing Body
used to say
that if we shut out those around us
while consulting an electronic device,
we’re really not focusing
on the sounds of life.
We are missing the sounds of life.
And we’re also missing out on opportunities
to strengthen our bond with others.